this video is brought to you by
Squarespace I want to be absolutely
clear upfront so that you can be very
assured where my intentions are going
forward I do not dislike any of the
media that we're talking about in this
video in fact I loved most of it on the
page and the screen I'm not coming for
any of the creators this time but we do
need to talk about this because there is
clearly an issue here and it's becoming
a problem but the issue doesn't really
have a clear Target to blame
so let's hit the ground running and talk
about red white and royal blue the
recently released movie based on the
book by Casey mcquiston in the heart of
the city of London The Majestic Wedding
Bells Echo announcing the matrimony of
Prince Phillip the eldest grandson of
England's Monarch the historic streets
lined with iconic landmarks Buzz with
anticipation and excitement among the
swirl of dignitaries and celebrities is
an individual who attracts attention
like a moth to a flame Alex Claremont
Diaz he isn't just any attendee he's the
dynamic son of Ellen Claremont a
Trailblazer who shattered glass ceilings
by becoming the first woman to become
the president of the United States
however this evening amidst the
sparkling chandeliers of the Grand
Ballroom something is a miss the air
thickens with tension and hush Whispers
Traverse the room at the heart of these
murmur are Alex and Prince Henry the
younger sibling of the groom their
contentious relationship is the stuff of
social media Legend the simmering
animosity between them reaches its
Crescendo when a relatively minor
misunderstanding leads to them swimming
and wedding cake providing juicy content
for the eager tabloids on both sides of
the pond the repercussions are immediate
with the impending reelection campaign
of President Claremont the Scandal is
ill timed threatening to put a dent in
her electoral armor damage control is of
the essence to smooth out ruffled
feathers and plate the media's appetite
for Scandal Alex and Henry are thrust
into a meticulously orchestrated PR
campaign
this facade aimed at showcasing their
renewed friendship has them attending
events posing for pictures and offering
sound bites about their brotherly Bond
what three words would I use to describe
Henry white blonde and British during
one such contrived rendevu after a
security breach lands them both locked
in a cramped broom closet Alex's guard
crumbles he divulges the root of his
resentment stemming from a slate he felt
from Henry during one of his initial
forays into the international stage this
heartfelt confession laced with
vulnerability moves Henry recognizing
the weight of the misunderstanding he
extends a genuine gesture of
reconciliation late night texts replace
tur exchanges humor replaces hostility
and slowly they start to build a bond
peppered with light-hearted Jabs and
shared inside jokes however
relationships are rarely linear at the
extravagant New Year celebration hosted
by Alex emotions bubble to the surface
when the clock strikes midnight a
buoyant Alex loses loses himself in the
festivities this does not sit well with
the Prince Henry's sudden and
unexplained departure hints at unspoken
sentiments driven by an overwhelming
fear of maybe losing Henry Alex seeks
him out in the Serene White House
Gardens confusion leads to a kiss from
the prince who like any man then spends
the next several weeks ignoring Alex's
texts and phone calls a normal gay
experience yes weeks later at a
presidential dinner Alex reunites with
Henry and the pair end up hooking up the
PA enter into a Friends with Benefits
relationship although they keep their
involvement secret Duty and
responsibilities however have their own
demands the Electoral Battlefield
beckons and Alex finds himself in Texas
championing his mother's campaign
because this is a romantic fantasy the
idea of Texas voting for a Democratic
president is actually possible he later
travels to Brooklyn to speak at the
Democratic National Convention where
Henry unexpectedly visits him this leads
to these friends with benefits becoming
something closer cler than just friends
Alex even comes out to his mother as
bisexual she's very supportive maybe
even too supportive when she starts
recommending that he go on prep but
advises him to think about his
relationship carefully a public
relationship between the first son and
the prince of England could change their
lives forever their story however is far
from a fairy tale ending Henry visits
Alex at the scene at Claremont Vacation
House near Austin Texas out on the lake
just when Alex is on the cusp of sharing
his deepest feelings with with Henry the
panicked Prince throws himself into the
lake and soon leaves escaping to England
but love with its tenacity Spurs Alex on
he pursues Henry across the ocean
seeking answers drenched from the
English rain Alex demands to know why
Henry has basically abandoned him Henry
admits that he loves Alex just as Alex
loves him but explains that his Royal
position makes a gay relationship
impossible for him but Alex with those
eyelashes of his manages to convince
Henry that their relationship is worth
fighting for and the the two reconcile
and commit to being together yet Destiny
has more challenges waiting in the wings
their intimate emails and texts a window
to their evolving Love Story are
maliciously exposed by a spurned x of
Alex's creating a media melstrom Alex
uses this as an opportunity to come out
publicly and own his sexuality and his
love for Henry giving a moving speech
that makes him the figurehead for queer
America but things don't go so well for
Henry whose family has all but
sequestered him away from the public at
large but thanks to some deaf
maneuvering on the part of allies on
both sides Alex and Henry reunite in
London and prepare to confront the king
of England about Henry being allowed to
be his own man a tur confrontation
follows but is interrupted by the sounds
in the streets the public have come to
support Henry despite what his family
may want and going against the wishes of
the crown Henry chooses Alex the climax
of the story coincides with the US
elections polls are tight and Alex's
family is preparing for bad news the
only thing keeping Alex together is is
Henry by his side as his mother prepares
a concession speech news comes from
Texas in the most fairy tale moments
since Cinderella's fairy godmother
turned a pumpkin into a carriage Texas
goes blue securing a second term for
president Claremont Alex's tireless
efforts combined with Henry's unwavering
support Mark a dual Victory one
political and one personal the movie
ends as they celebrate away from the
media glare in the Tranquil surroundings
of Alex's childhood home in Austin this
video is brought to you by Squarespace
Squarespace is an all-in-one web design
and hosting platform that makes it easy
for you to create a website and Market
your brand with industry-leading website
templates that are easy to customize you
don't need any design experience to show
the world your best digital self
Squarespace also makes it easy to keep
in touch with your audience or customers
with their expertly designed email
templates that are just as easy to
customize as their websites you can
follow up with customers or just keep
your audience in the loop with your
latest updates that's why we're
launching a newsletter with certain
social media sites going the way of the
dodo we wanted a way to keep in touch
with our amazing subscribers and
Squarespace gives us the perfect way to
do that in fact you can sign up for our
newsletter right now which will include
links to new videos progress updates for
Telos pictures as well as reviews
articles and so much more you can sign
up for free at our Squarespace website
jameson.com you can head to
squarespace.com right now for a free
trial and when you're ready to launch
your site go to Squarespace / James
that's j m s to save 10% off of your
first purchase of a website or domain
start showing the world how amazing you
are today with
Squarespace so red white and royal blue
might read like The Ultimate wh if
scenario but strip away the
international diplomacy and Royal
trappings and you got yourself a pretty
straightforward romance two guys falling
for each other when they least expect it
groundbreaking now if you're familiar
with the romance genre you'll know that
it's not exactly bursting at the seams
with gay love stories that don't take a
tragic turn and mainstream romcoms well
they've historically stuck to the script
of snowflakes and sanitized kisses with
the steamier stuff being left implied if
it's acknowledged at all explicitly
sexual gay romcoms are like unicorns
mythically rare and to some potentially
unsettling in this narrative Alex and
Henry's all consuming infatuation
anchors the plot they're the kind of
into to deep that has them gambling
everything on a chance at happiness and
sure with Alex's mom in full campaign
mode and Henry sporting a crown usually
metaphorically their romance isn't
exactly publicity friendly but the
fireworks happen offstage their text
messages a master class in building
sexual tension and they together moments
well let's just say they're explosive in
the clutcher pearls kind of way
especially in the book they make up for
lost time as it were the story kind of
saunters into this this Lial space it's
not pure handholding puppy love like in
heartstopper but it's also not quite at
the level of pay-per-view eroticism that
you'd find an elite it's sweet sure
endearing even to the most cynical of us
but it also packs enough heat to make
you want to crack open a window my full
name is Henry George Edward James
Hanover Stewart
Fox and I thought Alexander Gabriel
Claremont Diaz was a
mouthful he
is and yeah it got heat of the not so
great kind uh we're talking about think
pieces from places like The Huffington
Post and the BBC getting their knickers
in a Twist over the movie's excessive
sexiness The
Twist some of these naysayers were gay
men it's a bit of a the call is coming
from inside of the house moment when
queer people themselves openly admit to
being comfortable watching straight sex
in movies but are turned away by the
sight of boys kissing especially due to
how relatively tame red white and Royal
Blue's sex was compared to other game
media released in recent memory the bulk
of criticism however was found on social
media where straight people seemed to be
confused and shocked that gay men had
sex at all the references and
the one particular sex scene which
seemed like a Rubik's Cube to some
straight viewers were too much for an
audience that had been raised on the
sexless gay best friend sidekick
character it's almost as if someone
asked do gay characters have sexual
encounters how do they do this when
they're both facing each other what kind
of Witchcraft is this as a result they
rushed to the internet first to
investigate how the missionary position
could possibly work with gays and then
to express their dissatisfaction with
the situation there's a strong
undercurrent of hypocrisy here
particularly as queer folk of literally
every shade of the rainbow are accused
of corrupting the youth never mind that
it was perfectly acceptable for
virtually every American Teen Movie to
focus with laser Precision on rooting
for teenagers to Bone each other the
American piie franchise owes its whole
success to this for which audiences
agree that the heterosexual events in
American Pi
are normal but when it's gay it's
sexualization echoing a sentiment
quietly expressed in culture straight is
normal and everything else that is
outside of normal must be scrutinized
for how it may corrupt the normal which
is the most irrational thought process
presented in this essay and I will note
just in case YouTube makes me cut the
footage of said scene the main sex scene
in red white and royal blue entirely
focuses on faces it's all about the
emotional intimacy between two people
and less about the raw sex which isn't
even raw by the way because they make a
point of using a condom which a lot of
gay viewers laughed at because we're in
the age of prep but two things one
Prince Henry probably couldn't go on
prep without it causing a scandal and
two there are STDs other than HIV guys
this is why syphilis is resurging and
why we're getting antibiotic resistant
strains of Gonorrhea now wrap it up in
any case according to what I've gathered
the majority of viewers who
were offended were heterosexual women
who were apparently exposed to gay
content for the first time in their
lives be a Heart Stopper which huge
props to Heart Stopper by the way for
opening people's minds to the concept
that boy kissing is all right but when
that's their only exposure I can
understand how legs up anal penetration
may leave them surprised however they
were so taken aback that they criticized
the film for having an excessive amount
of sexual content which once more is one
scene and in both a physical and
figurative sense it's not quite as steem
me as the sex scene that took place
between Rose and Jack and the car in
Titanic they were shut down online
pretty quickly by a huge swath of fans
made up mostly of women but to my
delightful surprise a lot of gay men as
well who told them to pipe down and
accept that sex exists thank you but for
a few days this very very vocal minority
were making it seem like Alex and Henry
having sex in the most basic position
known to humankind while using a condom
and even to my recollection being under
the bed sheets was compared on a
onetoone basis as as the third day of a
meth orgy so why is it that they were
perfectly fine with Nick and Charlie
kissing up a storm on heartstopper
writing fanfiction about it and creating
countless fan edits on Tik Tok but
basically formed a covenant the minute
Alex pushed Henry's knees up to his
chest I'd like to see the reaction
to
well any episode of que's folk now was
this just because they've never been
exposed to the idea of gay sex before
were they homophobic were they secret
prageru plants out to kill the movie
were they sex negative in general or
have we as a society simply conditioned
a large swath of the populace to think
of gays as completely nonsexual objects
something that plenty of people like
having around but keep at a distance
just far enough away to not have to know
too much about it they know that men
have sex with men and women have sex
with women but they're really I outb by
the idea of knowing the ins and outs and
tops and bottoms of it all good thing
Henry didn't eat any beans before the
scene or that could have brought up even
more uncomfortable questions the
controversy about the sex in red white
and royal blue while quickly suppressed
seems to paint an ill- fated Omen about
the condition of gay men and possibly by
extension all of queerness and the
ability to be open about sex lives
especially in the same comfort that
straight creators depict straight sex
through a latent process of judging
gayness in media the straight audience
can pass a stamp of approval or condemn
certain media and in the process we can
perhaps perceive the hetero hegemony as
dictating how or how not to be gay and
simply by how overwhelmingly large the
straight audience is their dictation of
what good gay representation is drowns
out what gay men describe as good gay
representation this is the fear anyway
and though I believe it is irrational
the fear comes from a very real very
valid place especially as a conservative
wave once again washes Across America
and sections of Europe which tries to
insist that queer sex should be pushed
back into the closet or should simply
cease to exist altogether which is how
they also feel about various queer
people political gay fears seem to be
realized through the mass audien's
reaction to gay characters in media in
conjunction with criticisms against
relatively tame gay sex in one movie the
celebration of sexless queer characters
in another piece of queer media seems to
Echo a 1950s abstinence mandate that
says to Modern young queer people you'll
be accepted if you're less like the
characters in red white and royal blue
and more like the characters in
heartstopper let's take a closer look at
heartstopper for a moment this series
skips the usual over-the-top drama and
instead captures the sweet sometimes
clumsy moments of teen love it centers
around two characters Charlie spring
played by Joe lock and Nick Nelson
played by kit con their story takes
place in a typical English high school
and unfolds slowly and gently with each
episode moving the story forward toward
a satisfying emotional climax the story
carefully takes us through their
personal Journeys the difficulties they
face with bullying and the joy of
finding someone who truly understands
them all without becoming overly sad or
dramatic the show has a light touch that
perfectly captures how Straits have been
telling us first love feels for
centuries the show gives us a real look
at Charlie as he deals with his
sexuality and the need to be accepted
he's not just a stereotype he's a fully
developed character going through the
ups and downs of first love in a very
real way as for Nick the show does a
good job of showing his journey of
understanding that he's bisexual it
talks about the confusion and moments of
clarity that come with figuring out who
you are the series handles these complex
topics with a gentle touch that's both
admirable and sweet Heart Stopper also
shows the diverse experience of
different people in the queer Community
each character has a different story
reminding us that everyone's journey is
unique but there's still a common hope
and strength that they all share the
show is also notable or maybe notorious
for not focusing too much on the sexual
aspects of Nick and Charlie's
relationship this makes heartstopper a
strong argument against the idea that
gay stories are inherently too focused
on sex and therefore unsafe for kids or
young people to watch but while creating
a story focused on the sweet and cute
over the hot and bothered has attracted
an audience that might not usually watch
a show about queer characters it's also
seemed to alienate a large swath of the
queer Community there's been a rather
weird reaction to the second season of
the show in particular for instance drag
queens Trixie and Kata have a YouTube
series where they review Netflix shows
and movies called Queens who like to
watch when they reviewed the first
season among High fan demand and even
higher personal hesitation it seemed the
only point of contention was that Trixie
seem to be irritated by the cute
depiction of gay people that can often
have a was feeling exploited and
patronized while katata liked how cute
it was fast forward to season 2 and even
katata was over the cuteness and wanted
to see something a bit more grown up or
at least see the character's
relationships Advance Beyond hugging
even if it was offscreen the first
season was cute but ask anyone who's
been married for more than 10 years
those cute things about your significant
others start to get annoying real quick
cute wasn't cutting it anymore gay
people were cute when I was growing up
in the same way way that a Geral or a
guinea pig would be cute caged fond over
taken out to play with but ignored when
no longer novel and at the time probably
dead within 2 years it felt patronizing
to be reduced to this we were either
neutered and cute such as in teen Focus
TV shows or sexually active and
eventually dead such as in movies like
Brokeback Mountain tell me the
puritanical moralization of sexual
values doesn't exist anymore many
creators lean toward this over the years
as a way to show gay representation
without pissing off the Straits too much
so I can understand why some people in
the gay community especially men my age
who grew up with the Trope of the sexist
gay best friend like Trixie would be
irritated by it even now when there is
pretty mainstream gay movies and shows
that do show the sex stuff like young
Royals and Elite but like I said ki's
opinions seem to shift between the two
seasons our Queens who watch looked at
this story about a collection of various
queer 15 and 16year olds and they spent
the duration of their video railing it
because well nobody was getting railed
at a context I found this reaction a
little bit cringy and truthfully the
only time I really saw Trixie and caught
him miss a Mark heartstopper isn't a
show about sex so why should it be all
about sex they didn't want to see the
characters having sex they just wanted
to know that it was happening or
building up to happening because that
seemed more realistic to them and their
experiences to be clear gay people do
not want to see these characters having
sex but gay people do want to know that
gay sexuality is allowed to exist media
that divorces sexuality from from
identity is to some annoying at best and
triggering at worst not to paint Trixie
and katcha in a bad light they're hardly
alone in fact they're not even the first
to have this reaction there was a slew
of gay men and queer people in general
who held nothing but contempt for
heartstopper from the word go and not
even necessarily for the aformentioned
reasons there were many who felt that
heartstopper was simply too edgeless and
seemed to be presenting a purity mandate
projected at the entire queer Community
not unlike the messaging jeed at women
in
general there is a trend among discourse
among women about the allotted role of a
woman in the patriarchal power structure
men typically want women to be sexually
experienced but they also seem to
allocate a role for women that holds
them to a particular sexual Purity it's
a double standard for sure we have to to
be a boss but you can't be mean you have
to lead but you can't squash other
people's ideas you're supposed to love
being a mother but don't talk about your
kids all the damn time the Madonna
horror complex exists for a reason you
marry the nice girl not the one who'll
give you a in a movie theater
this bothered alenis Moret so severely
that she made one of the greatest songs
of all time because of it suffice to say
women have made it clear that they don't
like having the parameters of their
sexual qualifications gauged by a group
outside of women and I get it that's an
annoying
because on top of doing what you want to
do there is a looming social decorum of
what Society not only expects you to do
but will penalize you for not doing all
the while on the example of sexuality
there are other groups of people who can
do all the kinds of sexuality things
that they want without any kind of
repercussion heartstopper seems to
trigger these fears for some gay men
there is a perception that the show is
presenting an argument that the typical
normal healthy gay teenage relationship
should only be as physical as hugging
and a couple of kisses for which this is
compounded through several other
high-profile instances of gay media
specifically one which made waves in
2018 but that I will not explicitly
mention for reasons if you know you know
even though I highly doubt that
developing a normative argument that gay
men need to hold themselves to a willful
self-directed abstinence program to be
considered valid by Society at large was
Alice osan's objective to be clear I do
not under any circumstances believe that
Alice Osan is trying to reaet queer
sexuality sex is omitted from their work
as per their license as a Creator but
they do not shame sex in their work
outside of Oman there is a fear of an
external party dictating what is and is
not acceptable sexual behavior among
queer people this fear wouldn't be valid
were it not for a small army of people
who are currently trying to insist that
any queer visibility exists to
indoctrinate and corrupt the youth of
today media that so much as slightly
leans towards that sentiment even if
only perceived triggers this whole
Cascade of hasty generalizations in our
post Disney acquisition of Star Wars
World we've started to conflate the
creation Creator and attitudes of a
fandom we crossed those three wires a
lot and we perceive that the way a
phandom is interacting with a particular
example of media as being the intended
meaning of said Media or even the values
of the Creator themselves take for
instance the recent event of Zach Snider
hiring a transgender writer to write the
prequel comic book for his upcoming
movie Rebel Moon a portion of his fan
base made up of red pill basement
dwellers were horrified to learn that he
in fact isn't a horrible person like
them these are also the people who think
homelander is the good guy so just
because there are some people holding up
Nick and Charlie as the archetype of how
gay boys ought to express their
affection does not mean that this is
what the media is intending my
willingness to afford the benefit of the
doubt to aler swath of gays including
Trixie and Kata is that they don't want
to directly observe the sex lives of
these characters but rather comes from
an annoyance for a condition of gay
acceptance being to follow not only the
Purity standards of straight people but
specifically the Purity standards that
are imposed on straight women this may
even betray a thought pattern in society
even from our allies that indicates that
Society at large still does not view gay
men as actual men external factions that
dictate what our sex lives ought to be
are based on the model of what straight
people deem to be acceptable when in
reality queer psychosexual development
happens quite differently especially in
adolescence during a formative age of
communication skills gender is a
cultural barrier between girls and boys
this fluid line of same gender
communication facilitates a greater
opening for interpersonal exploration at
an earlier age this changes the way
queer people approach sex this leads to
a general Comfort towards sexuality in
queer circles and also why it's
troubling to see sex negative sentiments
arising from inside the community even
if a queer person is a late bloomer so
to speak they are conditioned by a
communal culture that was shaped by
early bloomers and thus tend to slip
into the way of thinking regardless and
it's also why the same jokes about the
sex lives of gay men do not apply to gay
women and vice versa the result is a set
of sexual expectations that are almost
completely inverted from heteronormative
expectations for instance second base
for straight people is apparently coping
a feel over clothing second base for gay
men is according to patterns is anal
penetration weirdly gay bases are
reversed from the straight ones the Home
Run system is a gauge used to measure
physical intimacy and commitment where
straight people tend to view sex as a
reward for enduring a slow escalation of
physicality gay people start with oral
on base one and eventually come around
to home base which is holding hands in
public and it's highly coveted gay men
only want one thing and it's disgusting
gusting while second base for lesbians
is reportedly a U-Haul now there's
nothing wrong with depicting gay people
not having sex if we want our queerness
defined based on internal merits rather
than owing public validation to having
someone's hand to hold then this is
Paramount subsequently AO Ace isn't the
only expression of asexuality you can be
gay and Ace at the same time developing
sexuality doesn't mean that we need to
see the characters doing it but but
people in the heat of budding sexuality
are bound to experiment a bit it would
be something that they would talk about
like confirmation through dialogue it
doesn't have to follow Elite's footsteps
but just like being gay or trans not
everyone who self-identifies as a sexual
now always knew that about
themselves sex is like broccoli to know
you don't like broccoli you first kind
of have to eat broccoli there's even a
chemical in broccoli that you can only
taste if you have a very specific active
Gene those who have it find broccoli to
be rancid they physiologically cannot
enjoy this vegetable for everyone else
it's great it's
good it's fine given society's push to
present sex as pleasurable many start by
trying it out and then spend maybe even
years trying to figure out why it's not
working for them keep in mind that
asexual doesn't always mean no sex drive
Ace like everything else in sexuality is
not only a spectrum but a matrix this is
pertinent as heartstopper author Alice
Osman self-identifies as asexual thems
which likely means that as per the
Stanley rule of write the stuff you wish
you could read they want romantic drama
that isn't just focused around sex and
that should be that it should be
abundantly okay for this kind of media
to exist just as it should be abundantly
okay for young Royals and Elite to exist
there is a compelling case for queer
media to portray the more innocent
aspects of life story of friendship
Adventure Coming of Age familial bonds
and the quotidian Joys and struggles
that make up the human experience these
stories matter because they reinforce
the idea that we queers are not defined
solely by our sexuality by diversifying
the types of stories told within LGBT
media we affirm that queer people lead
Rich complex lives that are worth
depicting in all their facets not just
in relationship to their sexual identity
portraying a range of stories from the
queer perspective also dismantles the
misconception
that our narratives are inherently adult
or explicit it challenges the strawman
fallacy that the presence of queer
characters in themes just makes
something inappropriate for young
audiences hopefully creating a space for
even more conservative parents to let
their kids watch this media and feel a
little bit less alone in the world
heartstopper fills this role perfectly
but we also have to accept that not
every queer story should be so innocent
when it comes to drag queens and gay
performers especially those who tour
they encounter an astronomical number of
gay and queer people especially among
other performers they get to know each
other quite well including stories of
their teenage years and this includes my
own discussions with queer people
seriously it's one of those like wait
everyone else was having sex it seems
that in high school for a lot of gays
they took the opportunity to dive deep
into experimentation heartstopper is a
direct contradiction of what many had
either experienced directly or by proxy
and so it feels like it's trying to
develop a puritanical objective for
young gay men alternately and this is
touching on the handholding part of
Heart Stopper is that for gays of a
certain generation and by that I mean
neither too old nor too young being
confronted by heartstopper under the
assumption that it is meant to mimic
reality is triggering believe me a lot
of gays would have loved to instantly
find a high school boyfriend with whom
they felt comfortable enough to explore
emotional intimacy and hold hands the
gay home run as it were however this
generation who are in their late 20s and
early 40s now my generation may have
very well wanted this experience but we
came of age when being out and gay as a
teenager wasn't trending if you don't
mind my flippancy for myself and others
we were the only out gay in school and
so seeing something like heartstopper
may feel like a culture is telling us
that we were doing it wrong alternately
for those who didn't even know that they
were gay as a teenager let alone come
out heartstopper is a reminder of what
could have been again again again this
is a community yes even the CIS gay men
who have undergone complex trauma that
we as a society still do not recognize
as trauma for all that even the
staunchest Allies do to make coming out
easier today we still have to come out
in a society which is grandfathered in a
myriad of cultural attitudes that are
incompatible with queerness which create
natural obstacles for us we exist in an
operating system that is not designed
for us the trauma comes with Society
placing the burden of integration on us
Society does not truly acknowledge this
as trauma because social understanding
of queer trauma is related to bigotry
and not the complex constructed from
watching your straight CIS friends be
able to live out a number of Life
Experiences as they see fit whereas the
queer individual having been raised
under the assumption that they are
straight Andor CIS must make concessions
and compromises based on how soon or
late they shift into their queerness
combined with media that dictates queer
experiences they are going to be across
theboard feelings of I lived my life the
wrong way you are dealing with this
group of people when you develop queer
media we're a tough crowd and rest
assured it's not all our fault with the
amount of com Lex trauma residing in
this group it makes perfect sense that a
piece of media meant to uplift and
Inspire the
lgbtqia will have the inverse unintended
effect of telling many of these people
that they messed up and that missing out
on all those experiences is their fault
and no you can't go back and fix it like
I came out when I was 12 and I haven't
had an actual boyfriend my whole life
many gay people cope with this by
telling themselves that their teenage
fantasies were simply impossible media
instances that refute this without
explanation may very well feel like
direct personal
criticism for having trauma trauma
trauma trauma generational trauma trauma
trauma this is what trauma looks like
these are the feelings that Heart
Stopper digs up in some people so it
makes perfect sense why the criticism
would be so focused on presenting
sexuality in a show that is neither
focused on it nor is it required it
makes sense perhaps but it is irrational
even though trauma itself is valid there
is an onus on the individual to respect
their own trauma without pushing it out
into the world but that's just Heart
Stopper what of the opposite an
inability to consume media that is
sexual because it presents those same
sensations of queer fomo perhaps this is
why some gay people are uncomfortable
with seeing gay sex in their streaming
movies not because they're squeamish
about dicks and butts but because it's
hearkening to a painful reminder of what
they feel like this movie is telling
them they missed out on and I'm sorry
for how polarizing this video is I know
it must seem like I'm jumping around a
lot if I'm not settling on a clear
critical Target it's because I'm not
trying to Target anyone when in fact I'm
trying to defend media's ability to
exist as a Creator's Vision but also
defend why queer people have such a
dodgy relationship with media featuring
queer people nobody's really in the
wrong
here except of course Millennia of
puritanical imperialism and postcolonial
patriarchal values that have resulted in
us feeling like we're overdue for a
little dignity and
autonomy in regards to queer resistance
around media I see two issues the first
being that queer people including gay
men have been so underrepresented for so
long and Tabo predominantly represented
by depictions that moralize US based on
hedonistic etiquette we feel an
obligation to watch queer media where we
are featured in the hopes that it will
break the representation glass ceiling
this is particularly more true for wide
relase high-profile examples of queer
media this is why Bros Got rave reviews
from mainstream critics while Fire
Island was mostly ignored it's also a
very erratic circumstance of media
criticism where red white and royal blue
was targeted for its sexiness but Bros
upon release was hailed as the Advent of
queer acceptance among mainstream
critics even though it had a lot more
sex among a lot more people and was not
nearly as good we're shooting ourselves
in the foot by following Trends highly
promoted queerness is queerness that has
been bespoke to have as much appeal to
straight audiences as possible think
Brokeback Mountain would that have been
as successful had it not starred two
heart throbs that women wet their
panties over and who simultaneously came
across as Butch enough for straight guys
to feel comfortable with the problem in
practice is that this obligation
implores us to watch media we simply may
not be interested in either outside of
our preferred genre gen or featuring
casting that we don't like or something
which may contain triggering elements
that we don't even know are triggers
simply because we don't consider
existing in a society that does not
accommodate our identities as cptsd
trauma the second issue is as per an
unawareness of said complex trauma we
are unable to compartmentalize a
negative reaction to Media as a trauma
response in which case we try to
intellectualize by interpreting this
media as making a normative argument
about all of gay people so like
to quote an incredibly problematic white
man dude sometimes a cigar is just a
cigar heartstopper is just trying to be
heartstopper not every artist or author
is out there trying to make a fictional
Manifesto out to reflect and shape the
world I don't think this is limited
exclusively to queer people but we seem
to take every instance of queer
representation as a Manifesto we treat
these media as if each one is actively
trying to set a universal precedent for
the state of modern queerness sometimes
this is true like with Barbie which was
a movie about Womanhood the interaction
between wom and the idea of woman and
where men may fit into this idea at
which point you are allowed to disagree
with the premises and conclusions of the
movie you're also allowed to disagree
with some finer points and some nitpicky
elements of the conclusion but overall
enjoy the movie or appreciate that it
exists slightly disagree does not need
to mean burn it in a fire this is
probably the clearest problem that
exists Within leftist spaces today that
is a fallacy of composition it's not
intellectual and it's certainly not sexy
you know who does that the alt-right
Disney made this movie about a strong
female character so the entire company
now has a woke agenda apparently and so
on and so forth the difference being
that those on the right at the very
least generally agree on who to hate
we're letting them divide us we have a
reluctance to let queer media be
fantasies instead as we're starved for
visibility we look at each one as the
media that might make or break our
personal autonomy heartstopper is a
fantasy red white and royal blue is a
fantasy young Royals is a fantasy
because for all that heartstopper may be
seen as an early indicator of a total
failure of queer writs it's certainly an
outlier next to a larger body of work
that includes the aention media and many
others heartstopper might be popular but
red white and royal blue is the most
watched Amazon Prime movie in the
history of the Sur
the issue is not with heartstopper but a
fear of living in a population that
leans toward that as the only acceptable
manifestation of queer expressions of
affection which is not an issue with the
media but rather the way we seem to
expect these instances of representation
to apply to the whole of queerness and
that rather than finding red white and
royal blue wanting for not being able to
present the multitudinous range of
queerness we can observe these pieces of
media as being pieces of a growing
whole which seems to be leaning to
Greater inclusivity as it grows this
feels like a popularity contest where
the largest fandom gets to decide what
is and is not an acceptable expression
of queer specifically gay love and the
people who have the smaller Voice next
to a large fandom of teenage girls are
gay people the fear is rooted in a
sensation of not having control over our
own depictions that are projected to
queer people because it's these
fictional examples that are held up as
Arch types for real people to be
compared
to one must acknowledge the historic
invisibility of gay narratives within
the mainstream media landscape the
journey from non-existence to the
peripheries and at long last to have
media with as diverse portrayals as
heartstopper young Royals red white and
royal blue not to mention more adult
focused media has been a sopian task for
the gay community this Travers has been
marred by periods of grotesque
caricature and an almost vois Safari ISM
that othered and fetishized gay
relationships casting them in a light
that shimmered with Scandal rather than
substance and these types of portrayals
are far from Gone especially in other
parts of the world but that's a
different video sign up for the patreon
to get us there yet as the pendulum
swung towards inclusivity a new critique
arose from the old prejudices the claim
that gay media is too sexualized conceal
the age-old detraction of the gays
themselves are too sexual in some sense
this reflects a societal discomfort with
the candid portrayal of homosexual Love
and Desire it is as if the very Act of
two men or two women expressing their
sexuality must be shrouded in a chased
Veil lest the onlooker be confronted
with the unvarnished truth of affection
and maybe even have to rethink their own
inner feelings moreover this assessment
often stems from a myopic view of gay
media taking as its evidence a narrow
selection of works that are
intentionally provocative or which
challenge societal Norms around sex and
sexuality to paint the entirety of gay
media with such a broad brush is to
ignore the rich tapestry of stories that
span the spectrum of experience from the
platonic and the familial to the
romantic and yes even the sexual to deny
the sexual component of gay
relationships in media is to deny a
fundamental aspect of human connection
regardless of orientation sexuality
after all is a potent element of The
Human Condition and its representation
in art and storytelling has long been a
conduit for deeper understanding a
mirror reflecting the complexities of
love lust and longing heteronormative
narratives have long enjoyed the
privileged of unabashed sexual
expression without inviting the same
level of scrutiny in contrast gay media
often faces a double-edged sword a
clamoring for representation on one hand
and a prudish recoil at the
manifestation of that representation on
the other there exists an unspoken rule
it seems that gay characters must not
only be present but must also comport
themselves in a manner palatable to the
heterosexual majority their sexuality
expressed with a modesty that is seldom
demanded of The Straits is it not then a
form of cultural suppression to dictate
the terms of representation to confine
the narratives of a community to the
narrow confines of what is deemed
acceptable by those who wield the
loudest voices gay media in its Essence
is a rebellion against such constraints
a declaration that love in its Myriad
forms will no longer be relegated to the
Shadows perhaps there are naturally
going to be various push back
consequences when dealing with a large
group of people who have been jerked
around let on and outright lied to for
decades knowing our history can
establish a context for why we Face the
struggles we do but also offer us
insight into what methods work to create
change and what methods don't spoiler
alert for gay rights being loud
obnoxious and altogether ungrateful and
shoving our sexuality in people's faces
has tended to be a more successful route
than working within the system and
making friends for marriage equality we
stopped asking politicians to help us
and started demanding equality by hiring
High Price Lawyers and taking people
States and whole countries to court for
being gay in the military we tried it
the nice way and we got don't ass on
tell so then we started marching and had
our gay millionaires threatened to stop
donating to democratic politicians if
they didn't repeal the thing and when it
came to AIDS we did absolutely
everything that every privileged person
says you're not supposed to do if you
want people to like you because asking
politely got us ignored even those of us
who knew Ronald Reagan but I digress the
Hallmark of an oppressor is to divorce a
community from its own history it makes
it easier for controlling powers to
dictate what that history was or simply
lie about a political body's involvement
in systemic institutional and social
discrimination the diversity of
relationships and experiences within the
lgbtq community should be
shown not all gay men have the same
experiences nor do all lesbians bisexual
people trans people or queer people in
general and let's not forget the
representation of asexuals and A-
Romantics who are often completely
overlooked in media the inclusion of
diverse relationships and sexual
Dynamics is
important whether it be runchy sex in a
bath house or holding your high school
boyfriend's hand visibility in all forms
of media including media directed at
younger people like heartstopper is
incredibly important there's a growing
resistance to including queer characters
in movies shows and books directed at a
ya or younger
audience based on the misconception that
their presence inherently involves adult
themes however children's media is an
ideal space to introduce the concept of
diverse families and friendships
teaching acceptance and understanding at
a young age
finally we must recognize the queer
representation is not the end goal but
part of a broader movement towards
inclusion and equality it's a means for
storytelling that reflects the world as
it is in all its diversity and at its
best it can influence perceptions and
Foster
empathy it's not just about seeing
oneself on screen it's about everyone
seeing the multifaceted World We Share
learning from it and finding the
universal human experiences that connect
us all your experiences are not erased
because Charlie and Nick can hold hands
your trauma is not invalid because
Society doesn't recognize it you don't
have to live up to the fairy tale that
Alex and Henry's story is told in no
matter what you feel there is no wrong
way to be queer there are no rules
saying if you didn't meet your boyfriend
in high school then you did things wrong
you didn't miss out on your
story maybe you're just starting
it and no matter what anyone
says your story has a place in this
world so don't let anyone stop you from
telling it
this video was brought to you by our
amazing patrons like the ones you see on
screen right now if you'd like to help
us keep making queer content on YouTube
you can sign up for our patreon at the
link in the description thanks for
watching I don't who's or
right
youneed and I love it you bring on my to
light I used to be Jed in my patience
some people who walked in and out of my
life but you is so different this
time thoughts of the future of you
caliz now you breaking
Downs I've never found love with no ego
you stitching up my
scars forever just the start yeah you we
go know go no no no no no
go
[Music]
bre
me
together me and you are
[Music]
breaking down my
walls never found love with no e you
stitching up my
scars forever just the start
you no now you're breaking down my
walls I've never
found love it no
love love it no love
[Music]
it
n